# W5500 Facilities
WIZnet W5500 facilities are defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/wiznet/w5500.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/wiznet/w5500.h)/[`source/picolibrary/wiznet/w5500.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/wiznet/w5500.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Table of Contents
1. [Control Byte Information](#control-byte-information)
1. [Socket Count](#socket-count)
1. [Socket Identification](#socket-identification)
1. [Socket Memory Block Identification](#socket-memory-block-identification)
1. [Communication Controller](#communication-controller)
1. [Register Information](#register-information)
1. [Driver](#driver)
1. [ARP Forcing Configuration Identification](#arp-forcing-configuration-identification)
1. [Ping Blocking Configuration Identification](#ping-blocking-configuration-identification)
1. [Interrupt Masks](#interrupt-masks)
1. [Socket Interrupt Masks](#socket-interrupt-masks)

## Control Byte Information
WIZnet W5500 control byte information is defined in the
`::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Control_Byte` structure.
Control byte field information is defined in the following
`::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Control_Byte` structures and enums:
- `Size`: field sizes
- `Bit`: field bit positions
- `Mask`: field bit masks
- `OM`: OM field values
- `RWB`: RWB field values
- `BSB`: BSB field values
- `BLOCK`: BLOCK field values
- `SOCKET`: SOCKET field values

## Socket Count
The `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SOCKETS` constant stores the WIZnet W5500 socket count.

## Socket Identification
The `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Socket_ID` enum class is used to identify WIZnet W5500
sockets.

A `std::ostream` insertion operator is defined for
`::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Socket_ID` if the `PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING`
project configuration option is `ON`.
The insertion operator is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc)
header/source file pair.

A `::picolibrary::Testing::Automated::random()` specialization for
`::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Socket_ID` is available if the
`PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING` project configuration option is `ON`.
The specialization is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Socket Memory Block Identification
The `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Socket_Memory_Block` enum class is used to identify
WIZnet W5500 socket memory blocks.

A `std::ostream` insertion operator is defined for
`::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Socket_Memory_Block` if the
`PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING` project configuration option is `ON`.
The insertion operator is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Communication Controller
The `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Communication_Controller` template class implements low
level functionality for interacting with a WIZnet W5500.
- To initialize a W5500's device selection hardware, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Communication_Controller::initialize()` member function.
- To read memory from a derived class, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Communication_Controller::read()` member functions.
- To write to memory from a derived class, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Communication_Controller::write()` member functions.

`::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Communication_Controller` automated tests are defined in
the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/wiznet/w5500/communication_controller/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/wiznet/w5500/communication_controller/main.cc)
source file.

The `::picolibrary::Testing::Automated::WIZnet::W5500::Mock_Communication_Controller` mock
WIZnet W5500 communication controller class is available if the
`PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING` project configuration option is `ON`.
The mock is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Register Information
WIZnet W5500 register information is defined in the following structures:
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::MR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::GAR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SUBR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SHAR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SIPR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::INTLEVEL`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::IR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::IMR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SIR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SIMR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::RTR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::RCR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::PTIMER`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::PMAGIC`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::PHAR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::PSID`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::PMRU`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::UIPR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::UPORTR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::PHYCFGR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::VERSIONR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_MR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_CR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_IR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_SR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_PORT`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_DHAR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_DIPR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_DPORT`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_MSSR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_TOS`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_TTL`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_RXBUF_SIZE`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_TXBUF_SIZE`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_TX_FSR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_TX_RD`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_TX_WR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_RX_RSR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_RX_RD`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_RX_WR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_IMR`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_FRAG`
- `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::SN_KPALVTR`

The following type aliases are defined in register information structures:
- `Type`: the register's type

The following constants are defined in register information structures:
- `MEMORY_OFFSET`: the register's memory offset
- `RESET` (stable registers only): the register's reset value

The following register field information structures are defined in register information
structures for registers that have fields:
- `Size`: field sizes
- `Bit`: field bit positions
- `Mask`: field bit masks

Enums for register field values are defined when appropriate.

## Driver
The `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver` WIZnet W5500 driver template class is used to
interact with a WIZnet W5500.
- To read the MR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_mr()`
  member function.
- To write to the MR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_mr()`
  member function.
- To read the GAR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_gar()`
  member function.
- To write to the GAR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_gar()` member function.
- To read the SUBR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_subr()`
  member function.
- To write to the SUBR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_subr()` member function.
- To read the SHAR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_shar()`
  member function.
- To write to the SHAR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_shar()` member function.
- To read the SIPR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sipr()`
  member function.
- To write to the SIPR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sipr()` member function.
- To read the INTLEVEL register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_intlevel()` member function.
- To write to the INTLEVEL register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_intlevel()` member function.
- To read the IR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_ir()`
  member function.
- To write to the IR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_ir()`
  member function.
- To read the IMR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_imr()`
  member function.
- To write to the IMR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_imr()` member function.
- To read the SIR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sir()`
  member function.
- To read the SIMR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_simr()`
  member function.
- To write to the SIMR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_simr()` member function.
- To read the RTR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_rtr()`
  member function.
- To write to the RTR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_rtr()` member function.
- To read the RCR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_rcr()`
  member function.
- To write to the RCR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_rcr()` member function.
- To read the PTIMER register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_ptimer()` member function.
- To write to the PTIMER register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_ptimer()` member function.
- To read the PMAGIC register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_pmagic()` member function.
- To write to the PMAGIC register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_pmagic()` member function.
- To read the PHAR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_phar()`
  member function.
- To write to the PHAR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_phar()` member function.
- To read the PSID register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_psid()`
  member function.
- To write to the PSID register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_psid()` member function.
- To read the PMRU register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_pmru()`
  member function.
- To write to the PMRU register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_pmru()` member function.
- To read the UIPR register, use the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_uipr()`
  member function.
- To read the UPORTR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_uportr()` member function.
- To read the PHYCFGR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_phycfgr()` member function.
- To write to the PHYCFGR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_phycfgr()` member function.
- To read the VERSIONR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_versionr()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_MR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_mr()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_MR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_mr()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_CR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_cr()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_CR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_cr()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_IR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_ir()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_IR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_ir()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_SR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_sr()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_PORT register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_port()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_PORT register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_port()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_DHAR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_dhar()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_DHAR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_dhar()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_DIPR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_dipr()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_DIPR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_dipr()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_DPORT register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_dport()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_DPORT register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_dport()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_MSSR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_mssr()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_MSSR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_mssr()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_TOS register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_tos()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_TOS register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_tos()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_TTL register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_ttl()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_TTL register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_ttl()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_RXBUF_SIZE register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_rxbuf_size()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_RXBUF_SIZE register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_rxbuf_size()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_TXBUF_SIZE register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_txbuf_size()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_TXBUF_SIZE register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_txbuf_size()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_TX_FSR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_tx_fsr()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_TX_RD register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_tx_rd()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_TX_WR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_tx_wr()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_TX_WR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_tx_wr()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_RX_RSR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_rx_rsr()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_RX_RD register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_rx_rd()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_RX_RD register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_rx_rd()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_RX_WR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_rx_wr()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_IMR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_imr()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_IMR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_imr()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_FRAG register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_frag()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_FRAG register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_frag()` member function.
- To read a socket's SN_KPALVTR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_sn_kpalvtr()` member function.
- To write to a socket's SN_KPALVTR register, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_sn_kpalvtr()` member function.
- To read data from a socket's receive buffer, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::read_rx_buffer()` member function.
- To write data to a socket's transmit buffer, use the
  `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver::write_tx_buffer()` member function.

`::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Driver` automated tests are defined in the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/wiznet/w5500/driver/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/wiznet/w5500/driver/main.cc)
source file.

The `::picolibrary::Testing::Automated::WIZnet::W5500::Mock_Driver` mock WIZnet W5500
driver class is available if the `PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING` project
configuration option is `ON`.
The mock is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc)
header/source file pair.

## ARP Forcing Configuration Identification
The `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::ARP_Forcing` enum class is used to identify WIZnet
W5500 ARP forcing configurations.

A `std::ostream` insertion operator is defined for
`::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::ARP_Forcing` if the `PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING`
project configuration option is `ON`.
The insertion operator is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Ping Blocking Configuration Identification
The `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Ping_Blocking` enum class is used to identify WIZnet
W5500 Ping blocking configurations.

A `std::ostream` insertion operator is defined for
`::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Ping_Blocking` if the
`PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING` project configuration option is `ON`.
The insertion operator is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/wiznet/w5500.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Interrupt Masks
WIZnet W5500 interrupt masks are defined in the `::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Interrupt`
structure.

## Socket Interrupt Masks
WIZnet W5500 socket interrupt masks are defined in the
`::picolibrary::WIZnet::W5500::Socket_Interrupt` structure.
