# TCA9548A Facilities
Texas Instruments TCA9548A facilities are defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/texas_instruments/tca9548a.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/texas_instruments/tca9548a.h)/[`source/picolibrary/texas_instruments/tca9548a.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/texas_instruments/tca9548a.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Table of Contents
1. [Register Information](#register-information)
1. [Device Addressing](#device-addressing)
1. [Driver](#driver)
1. [Bus Multiplexer Aligner](#bus-multiplexer-aligner)

## Register Information
Texas Instruments TCA9548A register information is defined in the following structures:
- `::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Control`

The following constants are defined in register information structures:
- `RESET`: the register's reset value

## Device Addressing
The `::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Address_Numeric` type alias is used to
store a Texas Instruments TCA9548A device address in numeric (right justified) format.
See the [`::picolibrary::I2C::Device_Address_Numeric` documentation](../../i2c.md#device)
for more information.

The `::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Address_Transmitted` type alias is used
to store a Texas Instruments TCA9548A device address in transmitted (left shifted) format.
See the [`::picolibrary::I2C::Device_Address_Transmitted`
documentation](../../i2c.md#device) for more information.

## Driver
The `::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Driver` Texas Instruments TCA9548A driver
template class is used to interact with a Texas Instruments TCA9548A.
- To read the Control register, use the
  `::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Driver::read_control()` member function.
- To write to the Control register, use the
  `::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Driver::write_control()` member function.

`::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Driver` automated tests are defined in the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/texas_instruments/tca9548a/driver/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/texas_instruments/tca9548a/driver/main.cc)
source file.

The `::picolibrary::Testing::Automated::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Mock_Driver` mock
Texas Instruments TCA9548A driver class is available if the
`PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING` project configuration option is `ON`.
The mock is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/texas_instruments/tca9548a.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/texas_instruments/tca9548a.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/texas_instruments/tca9548a.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/texas_instruments/tca9548a.cc)
header/source file pair.

The `::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Caching_Driver` Texas Instruments
TCA9548A caching driver template class adds register caching to
`::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Driver`.
- To reset all cached register values, use the
  `::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Caching_Driver::reset_cache()` member
  function.
- To write to the Control register, use the
  `::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Caching_Driver::write_control()` member
  function.
- To get the cached Control register value, use the
  `::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Caching_Driver::control()` member function.

`::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Caching_Driver` automated tests are defined
in the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/texas_instruments/tca9548a/caching_driver/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/texas_instruments/tca9548a/caching_driver/main.cc)
source file.

The `::picolibrary::Testing::Automated::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Mock_Caching_Driver`
mock Texas Instruments TCA9548A caching driver class is available if the
`PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING` project configuration option is `ON`.
The mock is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/texas_instruments/tca9548a.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/texas_instruments/tca9548a.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/texas_instruments/tca9548a.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/texas_instruments/tca9548a.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Bus Multiplexer Aligner
The `::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Bus_Multiplexer_Aligner` template class
is a nullary functor that is intended to be used as a `::picolibrary::I2C::Device`
instance's bus multiplexer aligner.
`::picolibrary::Texas_Instruments::TCA9548A::Bus_Multiplexer_Aligner` automated tests are
defined in the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/texas_instruments/tca9548a/bus_multiplexer_aligner/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/texas_instruments/tca9548a/bus_multiplexer_aligner/main.cc)
source file.
