# PID781 Facilities
Adafruit PID781 facilities are defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/adafruit/pid781.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/adafruit/pid781.h)/[`source/picolibrary/adafruit/pid781.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/adafruit/pid781.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Table of Contents
1. [Bit Rate Identification](#bit-rate-identification)
1. [LCD Size Identification](#lcd-size-identification)
1. [Custom Character Bank Identification](#custom-character-bank-identification)
1. [Custom Character Identification](#custom-character-identification)
1. [Custom Character Pixel Matrix Definition](#custom-character-pixel-matrix-definition)
1. [Pin Identification](#pin-identification)
1. [Driver](#driver)

## Bit Rate Identification
The `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Bit_Rate` enum class is used to identify Adafruit
PID781 bit rates.

A `std::ostream` insertion operator is defined for
`::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Bit_Rate` if the `PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING`
project configuration option is `ON`.
The insertion operator is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.cc)
header/source file pair.

## LCD Size Identification
The `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::LCD_Size` enum class is used to identify Adafruit
PID781 LCD sizes.
- To get the number of columns an LCD has, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::columns()` function.
- To get the number of rows an LCD has, use the `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::rows()`
  function.

`::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::LCD_Size` automated tests are defined in the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/adafruit/pid781/lcd_size/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/adafruit/pid781/lcd_size/main.cc)
source file.

A `std::ostream` insertion operator is defined for
`::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::LCD_Size` if the `PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING`
project configuration option is `ON`.
The insertion operator is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Custom Character Bank Identification
The `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Custom_Character_Bank` enum class is used to
identify Adafruit PID781 custom character banks.

A `std::ostream` insertion operator is defined for
`::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Custom_Character_Bank` if the
`PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING` project configuration option is `ON`.
The insertion operator is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Custom Character Identification
The `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Custom_Character_ID` enum class is used to identify
Adafruit PID781 custom characters within an Adafruit PID781 custom character bank.

`::picolibrary::Output_Formatter` is specialized for
`::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Custom_Character_ID`.
The
`::picolibrary::Output_Formatter<::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Custom_Character_ID>`
specialization does not support user formatting configuration.
`::picolibrary::Output_Formatter<::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Custom_Character_ID>`
automated tests are defined in the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/adafruit/pid781/custom_character_id/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/adafruit/pid781/custom_character_id/main.cc)
source file.

A `std::ostream` insertion operator is defined for
`::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Custom_Character_ID` if the
`PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING` project configuration option is `ON`.
The insertion operator is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Custom Character Pixel Matrix Definition
The `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Custom_Character_Pixel_Matrix` type alias is used to
define pixel matrices for Adafruit PID781 custom characters.

## Pin Identification
The `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Pin` enum class is used to identify Adafruit PID781
pins.

A `std::ostream` insertion operator is defined for `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Pin`
if the `PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING` project configuration option is `ON`.
The insertion operator is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Driver
The `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver` Adafruit PID781 driver template class is
used to interact with an Adafruit PID781.
- To set and save the bit rate, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::set_and_save_bit_rate()` member function.
- To report the bit rate, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::report_bit_rate()` member function.
- To set and save the LCD size, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::set_and_save_lcd_size()` member function.
- To set and save the backlight color, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::set_and_save_backlight_color()` member
  function.
- To set and save the backlight brightness, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::set_and_save_backlight_brightness()` member
  function.
- To set and save the LCD contrast, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::set_and_save_lcd_contrast()` member function.
- To set and save the splash screen, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::set_and_save_splash_screen()` member function.
- To illuminate the backlight, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::illuminate_backlight()` member function.
- To extinguish the backlight, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::extinguish_backlight()` member function.
- To enable auto scrolling, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::enable_auto_scrolling()` member function.
- To disable auto scrolling, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::disable_auto_scrolling()` member function.
- To enable cursor underline, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::enable_cursor_underline()` member function.
- To disable cursor underline, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::disable_cursor_underline()` member function.
- To enable cursor blink, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::enable_cursor_blink()` member function.
- To disable cursor blink, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::disable_cursor_blink()` member function.
- To set the cursor position, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::set_cursor_position()` member function.
- To home the cursor, use the `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::home_cursor()`
  member function.
- To retreat the cursor, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::retreat_cursor()` member function.
- To advance the cursor, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::advance_cursor()` member function.
- To clear the screen, use the `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::clear_screen()`
  member function.
- To create a custom character, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::create_custom_character()` member function.
- To create and save a custom character, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::create_and_save_custom_character()` member
  function.
- To load a custom character bank, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::load_custom_character_bank()` member function.
- To set and save an output pin's initial pin state, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::set_and_save_output_pin_initial_state()`
  member function.
- To transition an output pin to the high state, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::transition_output_pin_to_high()` member
  function.
- To transition an output pin to the low state, use the
  `::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver::transition_output_pin_to_low()` member
  function.

`::picolibrary::Adafruit::PID781::Driver` automated tests are defined in the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/adafruit/pid781/driver/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/adafruit/pid781/driver/main.cc)
source file.

The `::picolibrary::Testing::Automated::Adafruit::PID781::Mock_Driver` mock Adafruit
PID781 driver class is available if the `PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING` project
configuration option is `ON`.
The mock is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/adafruit/pid781.cc)
header/source file pair.
