# MCP23008/MCP23S08 Facilities
Microchip MCP23008/MCP23S08 facilities are defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08.h)/[`source/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Table of Contents
1. [Register Information](#register-information)
1. [Driver](#driver)
1. [Pin](#pin)
1. [Internally Pulled-Up Input Pin](#internally-pulled-up-input-pin)
1. [Open-Drain I/O Pin](#open-drain-io-pin)
1. [Push-Pull I/O Pin](#push-pull-io-pin)

## Register Information
Microchip MCP23008/MCP23S08 register information is defined in the following structures:
- `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::IODIR`
- `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::IPOL`
- `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::GPINTEN`
- `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::DEFVAL`
- `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::INTCON`
- `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::IOCON`
- `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::GPPU`
- `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::INTF`
- `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::INTCAP`
- `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::GPIO`
- `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::OLAT`

The following constants are defined in register information structures:
- `ADDRESS`: the register's address
- `RESET` (stable registers only): the register's reset value

The following register field information structures are defined in register information
structures for registers that have fields:
- `Size`: field sizes
- `Bit`: field bit positions
- `Mask`: field bit masks

## Driver
The `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Driver_Concept` concept class defines the
expected interface of a Microchip MCP23008/MCP23S08 driver.
- To read the IODIR register, use a driver implementation's `read_iodir()` member
  function.
- To write to the IODIR register, use a driver implementation's `write_iodir()` member
  function.
- To read the IPOL register, use a driver implementation's `read_ipol()` member function.
- To write to the IPOL register, use a driver implementation's `write_ipol()` member
  function.
- To read the GPINTEN register, use a driver implementation's `read_gpinten()` member
  function.
- To write to the GPINTEN register, use a driver implementation's `write_gpinten()` member
  function.
- To read the DEFVAL register, use a driver implementation's `read_defval()` member
  function.
- To write to the DEFVAL register, use a driver implementation's `write_defval()` member
  function.
- To read the INTCON register, use a driver implementation's `read_intcon()` member
  function.
- To write to the INTCON register, use a driver implementation's `write_intcon()` member
  function.
- To read the IOCON register, use a driver implementation's `read_iocon()` member
  function.
- To write to the IOCON register, use a driver implementation's `write_iocon()` member
  function.
- To read the GPPU register, use a driver implementation's `read_gppu()` member function.
- To write to the GPPU register, use a driver implementation's `write_gppu()` member
  function.
- To read the INTF register, use a driver implementation's `read_intf()` member function.
- To read the INTCAP register, use a driver implementation's `read_intcap()` member
  function.
- To read the GPIO register, use a driver implementation's `read_gpio()` member function.
- To write to the GPIO register, use a driver implementation's `write_gpio()` member
  function.
- To read the OLAT register, use a driver implementation's `read_olat()` member function.
- To write to the OLAT register, use a driver implementation's `write_olat()` member
  function.

The `::picolibrary::Testing::Automated::Microchip::MCP23X08::Mock_Driver` mock Microchip
MCP23008/MCP23S08 driver class is available if the `PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING`
project configuration option is `ON`.
The mock is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/microchip/mcp23x08.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/microchip/mcp23x08.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/microchip/mcp23x08.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/microchip/mcp23x08.cc)
header/source file pair.

The `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Caching_Driver_Concept` concept class defines the
expected interface of a Microchip MCP23008/MCP23S08 caching driver.
- To reset all cached register values, use a caching driver implementation's
  `reset_cache()` member function.
- To read the IODIR register, use a caching driver implementation's `read_iodir()` member
  function.
- To write to the IODIR register, use a caching driver implementation's `write_iodir()`
  member function.
- To get the cached IODIR register value, use a caching driver implementation's `iodir()`
  member function.
- To read the IPOL register, use a caching driver implementation's `read_ipol()` member
  function.
- To write to the IPOL register, use a caching driver implementation's `write_ipol()`
  member function.
- To get the cached IPOL register value, use a caching driver implementation's `ipol()`
  member function.
- To read the GPINTEN register, use a caching driver implementation's `read_gpinten()`
  member function.
- To write to the GPINTEN register, use a caching driver implementation's
  `write_gpinten()` member function.
- To get the cached GPINTEN register value, use a caching driver implementation's
  `gpinten()` member function.
- To read the DEFVAL register, use a caching driver implementation's `read_defval()`
  member function.
- To write to the DEFVAL register, use a caching driver implementation's `write_defval()`
  member function.
- To get the cached DEFVAL register value, use a caching driver implementation's
  `defval()` member function.
- To read the INTCON register, use a caching driver implementation's `read_intcon()`
  member function.
- To write to the INTCON register, use a caching driver implementation's `write_intcon()`
  member function.
- To get the cached INTCON register value, use a caching driver implementation's
  `intcon()` member function.
- To read the IOCON register, use a caching driver implementation's `read_iocon()` member
  function.
- To write to the IOCON register, use a caching driver implementation's `write_iocon()`
  member function.
- To get the cached IOCON register value, use a caching driver implementation's `iocon()`
  member function.
- To read the GPPU register, use a caching driver implementation's `read_gppu()` member
  function.
- To write to the GPPU register, use a caching driver implementation's `write_gppu()`
  member function.
- To get the cached GPPU register value, use a caching driver implementation's `gppu()`
  member function.
- To read the INTF register, use a caching driver implementation's `read_intf()` member
  function.
- To read the INTCAP register, use a caching driver implementation's `read_intcap()`
  member function.
- To read the GPIO register, use a caching driver implementation's `read_gpio()` member
  function.
- To write to the GPIO register, use a caching driver implementation's `write_gpio()`
  member function.
- To read the OLAT register, use a caching driver implementation's `read_olat()` member
  function.
- To write to the OLAT register, use a caching driver implementation's `write_olat()`
  member function.
- To get the cached OLAT register value, use a caching driver implementation's `olat()`
  member function.

To add MCP23008/MCP23S08 caching driver functionality to a Microchip MCP23008/MCP23S08
driver implementation, use the `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Caching_Driver`
template class.
`::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Caching_Driver` automated tests are defined in the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08/caching_driver/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08/caching_driver/main.cc)
source file.

The `::picolibrary::Testing::Automated::Microchip::MCP23X08::Mock_Caching_Driver` mock
Microchip MCP23008/MCP23S08 caching driver class is available if the
`PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING` project configuration option is `ON`.
The mock is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/microchip/mcp23x08.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/microchip/mcp23x08.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/microchip/mcp23x08.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/microchip/mcp23x08.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Pin
The `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin` template class is used to interact with a
Microchip MCP23008/MCP23S08 pin.
- To check if a pin is associated with a caching driver, use the `bool` conversion
  operator.
- To configure a pin to act as an internally pulled-up input pin, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::configure_pin_as_internally_pulled_up_input()`
  member function.
- To configure a pin to act as an open-drain I/O pin, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::configure_pin_as_open_drain_io()` member
  function.
- To configure a pin to act as a push-pull I/O pin, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::configure_pin_as_push_pull_io()` member
  function.
- To check if an internally pulled-up input pin's internal pull-up resistor is disabled,
  use the `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::pull_up_is_disabled()` member
  function.
- To check if an internally pulled-up input pin's internal pull-up resistor is enabled,
  use the `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::pull_up_is_enabled()` member function.
- To disable an internally pulled-up input pin's internal pull-up resistor, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::disable_pull_up()` member function.
- To enable an internally pulled-up input pin's internal pull-up resistor, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::enable_pull_up()` member function.
- To check if a pin is in the low state, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::is_low()` member function.
- To check if a pin is in the high state, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::is_high()` member function.
- To transition an open-drain I/O pin to the low state, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::transition_open_drain_io_to_low()` member
  function.
- To transition a push-pull I/O pin to the low state, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::transition_push_pull_io_to_low()` member
  function.
- To transition an open-drain I/O pin to the high state, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::transition_open_drain_io_to_high()` member
  function.
- To transition a push-pull I/O pin to the high state, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin::transition_push_pull_io_to_high()` member
  function.
- To toggle the state of an open-drain I/O pin, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::toggle_open_drain_io()` member function.
- To toggle the state of a push-pull I/O pin, use the
  `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::toggle_push_pull_io()` member function.

`::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Pin` automated tests are defined in the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08/pin/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08/pin/main.cc)
source file.

The `::picolibrary::Testing::Automated::Microchip::MCP23X08::Mock_Pin` mock Microchip
MCP23008/MCP23S08 pin class is available if the `PICOLIBRARY_ENABLE_AUTOMATED_TESTING`
project configuration option is `ON`.
The mock is defined in the
[`include/picolibrary/testing/automated/microchip/mcp23x08.h`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/include/picolibrary/testing/automated/microchip/mcp23x08.h)/[`source/picolibrary/testing/automated/microchip/mcp23x08.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/source/picolibrary/testing/automated/microchip/mcp23x08.cc)
header/source file pair.

## Internally Pulled-Up Input Pin
The `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Internally_Pulled_Up_Input_Pin` template class
implements a GPIO internally pulled-up input pin interface for interacting with a
Microchip MCP23008/MCP23S08 pin.
See the [`::picolibrary::GPIO::Internally_Pulled_Up_Input_Pin_Concept`
documentation](../../gpio.md#internally-pulled-up-input-pin) for more information.
`::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Internally_Pulled_Up_Input_Pin` automated tests are
defined in the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08/internally_pulled_up_input_pin/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08/internally_pulled_up_input_pin/main.cc)
source file.

## Open-Drain I/O Pin
The `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Open_Drain_IO_Pin` template class implements a
GPIO open-drain I/O pin interface for interacting with a Microchip MCP23008/MCP23S08 pin.
See the [`::picolibrary::GPIO::IO_Pin_Concept`
documentation](../../gpio.md#io-pin) for more information.
`::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Open_Drain_IO_Pin` automated tests are defined in the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08/open_drain_io_pin/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08/open_drain_io_pin/main.cc)
source file.

## Push-Pull I/O Pin
The `::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Push_Pull_IO_Pin` template class implements a
GPIO push-pull I/O pin interface for interacting with a Microchip MCP23008/MCP23S08 pin.
See the [`::picolibrary::GPIO::IO_Pin_Concept`
documentation](../../gpio.md#io-pin) for more information.
`::picolibrary::Microchip::MCP23X08::Push_Pull_IO_Pin` automated tests are defined in the
[`test/automated/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08/push_pull_io_pin/main.cc`](https://github.com/apcountryman/picolibrary/blob/main/test/automated/picolibrary/microchip/mcp23x08/push_pull_io_pin/main.cc)
source file.
